to use our experience as a launching platform
where perhaps we might
reach an even higher level of achievement in the
future.
It was at that It was at the last of those three
commencements on Saturday morning that Dr.
Miller failed to shake hands with Melanie
Zentgraf.
An action dash or lack thereof dash on his part
which would later be thrust at him by the Board of
Regents less than two months later.
In the 70s, I continued to speak at Musters and many
other A&M related events, such as former student
meetings in various Texas communities and A&M
Mothers Club sessions as well.
Each of those muster were special and quite often
unique.
For example, at an outdoor session on the beach
near Galveston, our biggest problems included
the noises of waves
and the constant irritation
of mosquitoes and other bugs.
On another occasion,
at a West Texas muster,
which was intended to be an old-fashioned Texas
potluck, event where everybody was to bring
something.
Someone forgot to bring plates and tableware
and then they realized that no one had made iced
tea.
A very special
Aggie memory that could come only at an A&M event
occurred in one of my early years when I spoke at the
muster in Fort Worth.
Before I was very far into my remarks,
A senior former student called out from the back of
the room, quote, what kind of Aggie are you? You
didn't even go to school there.
Being challenged with a truly unanticipated
question, I paused and attempted to escape his
possible scorn
by pointing out that although I had not attended
A&M,
I was an Aggie by choice.
He sprang to his feet and responded, what the hell
does that mean?
And I attempted to explain that although I
had not gone to A&M, I had had
other offers of employment at various times, but
had made the decision to remain there.
And then an idea
popped in my brain, which I voiced when I looked at
him and said, but I have understood that some
people didn't have a choice about whether or not
they attended A&M.
Back on his feet, this time with a smile.
He. Agreed.
Quote you're right. In the fall of 28. My dad called
me into our house on a farm. Up near Jacksboro.
And told me I could stay there that fall. and pick
cotton,
or I could go to College Station and maybe they'd
straighten me out."
Period quote.
A&M club meetings,
former student club meetings, Aggie Mothers
sessions,
meeting with high school counselors when they
came to the campus,
and many other appearances of that sort. Now in
hindsight,
appear to have been, appear
to have been excellent
preparation for
the off-campus responsibilities of a senior
academic administrator, especially a campus
CEO.
I remember going to Aggie Fish Camp almost every
year at their gathering at a Methodist youth
retreat not far from Palestine.
My normal assignment was to try to explain
the philosophy of land grant education
and Texas A&M's
role
in meeting the challenges of the Morrill Act,
M-O-R-R-I-L-L.
In those remarks,
I attempted to emphasize that the Morrill Act
passed by the Federal Congress in 1862 was adopted
by the Texas legislature in the early 1870s.
And then those
representatives and senators
identified Brazos County as the location for the
Agricultural Mechanical College of Texas, the
first public institution in the Lone Star State.
I tried to
assure these incoming students that the federal
Act
mandated that all
land grant schools must offer preparation in
agriculture,
comma, quote, the mechanic arts, quote, which I
always interpreted as in today's lingo as
engineering and technology,
comma, and military instruction, which today we
label as ROTC training.
Then I was very careful to try to proceed beyond
that and to indicate that in no way did the Morrill
Act limit land-grant schools to only those three
areas of opportunity.
And I tried to make
these incoming freshmen aware that Texas A&M
hoped to be far
more inclusive and was on its way
and was striving to add to its breadth and depth
every year.
Fish Camp, quote, paragraph, Fish Camp always
seemed to be a very meaningful
and splendid introduction to incoming freshmen
from all backgrounds with a wide variety of goals.
Male and female, civilian and corps,
urban, rural, domestic and international,
Similarly, when they left
the two or three days of fish camp,
there seemed to be already a foundation of
spirit and togetherness.
held together by an increasing flow of
maroon-tinted blood.
Another of those bonding events, of course, was
Bonfire,
which in our first years was held In the early 60s on
the drill field. And then moved over to the area
south of Duncan Dining Hall.
Students worked on. That
on building that stack of logs.
To be. Ignited the night before. Home games with
the Longhorns.
Or on Tuesday night. If the game was in Austin.
The stacks did not seem very high.
Back.
View from.
the elevation of the night bonfires in the late
1990s.
Students worked there. And those of us who lived in
the area and had fireplaces would quite often go
over a day or two after bonfire was over and cut up
the remainder of the small timber that had been
left out of the big stack
and towed it home
very much with the permission and encouragement
of campus authorities who were grateful not to
have to haul that rubbish to a landfill.
Paragraph, during those same years I
felt an increasing obligation
as I rose in
in responsibility on the campus to become even
more involved in the community.
This particularly included
service at the First Presbyterian Church in Bryan
as a deacon and elder and for a number of years as a
Sunday school class. as Sunday school class
teacher.
We had a very, a group that gathered early in the
1960s
of young couples
with an apparent, almost uncountable sum of
children from infants into elementary school.
As we organized that group, we made one
congregationally
impolitic decision when we named ourselves the
Okay, gonna stop and look at peaches.
Had to stop east of Fredericksburg to buy some
peaches at an orchard run, believe it or not, by a
German. His name is George Peel, P-E-H-L.
Somehow, somebody I think could make some fun out
of the fact that he was selling that his peaches had
peelings or that they were,
he grew them and therefore they had been peeled.
That impolitic
step we made was to name our Sunday school class the
young couples class.
Most of us were well below the age of 35 years or so.
And
therefore, we did not anticipate the frustration
and clear disappointment
by some older married folks who attended who
were members of, quote, the couples class, quote,
because they thought we were deliberately trying
to infer that they were old and we were young.
Paragraph.
In that Sunday school group of friends, were a
number of folks who would become true life
acquaintances and who we would count as among our
closest friends forever.
As my wife and others often said, we had the joy of
being poor and raising children together.
Another similar paragraph. Another community
experience was to serve on the board of the City
National Bank
in Bryan.
That relationship came almost entirely because
of
our acquaintance with Bookman Peters.
whom I first remember encountering in the hallway
of the First Presbyterian Church one day in Bryan,
one day between Sunday school and worship
service. He was then at the first bank and trust in
Bryan, and he urged me to consider moving our
account downtown.
I tried to remind him
that I was only an instructor
and certainly our account would not make much
profit for any financial institution.
He optimistically predicted that I would not
always be at that rank.
And his encouragement led me to move the account.
Then when his family purchased the city national,
we moved our account there. And then in the 70s, I
was honored to be invited to join the board of that
bank.
Paragraph now in hindsight. One of the most. Now in
sad hindsight, one of the most memorable. Events.
Of that. Community involvement. Was the day when
we? Voted. To accept what seemed to be a very
generous stock swap merger offer. Between the
City National Bank. of Bryan and the First City
National Bank of Houston.
We had other offers at that time from the Republic
Bank and the Mercantile National Bank, both of
Dallas. And as I later told my colleagues, On that
particular day, we couldn't miss by accepting any
of those three dash
because they all went bankrupt.
In the. Paragraph.
After duck as after Doctor Williams moved up to be
Chancellor of the system. We sadly did not see.
Very much of him.
And Mrs Williams.
They. Had moved from the. New what we still thought
of as the new president's house on the South edge of
the campus.
To make that available for. Jarvis and Alma
Miller. First, I believe they rented.
Accommodations
in College Station.
And then moved to the first floor. of the old Board
of Regents house just north of Sabeasa
and lived beneath the quarters for the Texas A&M
Press on the second floor of that old structure.
That peace and quiet
was destroyed one night when Mrs. Williams said
she heard an A&M campus fireman yelling, y'all get
out, your house is on fire.
They dashed out to their personal safety, but lost
many of their sentimentally irreplaceable
belongings. The press suffered great damage
also, even losing much of the original drafts of
the A&M Press mark, which had been created
by Tom Lee, the great El Paso artist.
The press found temporary quarters
in a warehouse, And the Williams moved off campus.
Before too long they relocated to Houston. When
Doctor Williams became the president of the Texas
Medical Center.
In which he became the.
Cooperation builder. And coordinator. for all of
the medical
facilities and instructional
institutions in that great conglomeration in
Houston.
Now, with the benefit of hindsight, I am deeply
frustrated at myself
that I did not remain in closer contact with that
one of a kind role model for me as an academic
administrator.
He will always be for me The splendid leader. To
whom all others will be. Compared.
His passing not long after. His death not long
after. We moved to El Paso. Was a deep personal
loss.
The board selected Frank Hubert, Dean of
Education, to replace Dr. Williams as the chief
executive of the system.
So he moved into the
system administration building,
now named the Jack Williams building. on the east
end of the campus facing Texas Avenue. Soon we
became aware of a deep disagreement between the
new chancellor and President Miller
over the reporting location
of the various system agencies, including the
Agricultural and Mechanical
Experiment Stations,
Extension Services and the Texas Forest Service.
Dr. Miller, who as Director of the Agricultural
Experiment Station had not want to report to the
campus. But now as president, he urged the board to
place those agencies under his administrative
review.
He had some reason to do so because so much of the
budget for the colleges of agriculture,
engineering, and veterinary medicine
came from the stations and the services.
Naturally, the heads of those agencies did not
want to report to the campus
But preferred. To go to the head man. Of the system.
Dr Hubert and his always. Calm.
Quietly determined manner.
Set out to ensure.